[Music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[Music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy
Aloway
>> and I'm Joe Weisenthal. Joe, there are
so many huge stories that you could pull
out of this year, but I mean like some
actually really really big ones. So we
had liberation day and the market crash.
>> We had the continued weakness in the US
dollar which has been this sort of slow
burn crash across the year. Um and we're
recording this let's see October 17th
and you know dollar down yet again.
Although it is down, but however,
there's been a little, you know, we hit
it low in midseptember.
>> Don't make apologies for the dollar,
Joe.
>> No, you know, I just like keep going and
then I'm
>> all right.
>> Keep going. Then I might add something.
>> Fall in the dollar.
>> Yeah, there's that. The fall in the
dollar is very big in so far this year.
>> But this huge ramp up in the price of
gold, which seems to hit a new record
all the time. And then we've had the
continued strength slash resilience,
whatever you want to call it, enthusiasm
about AI and the stock market. And it
really seems like there's this division
at the moment between how people feel
about corporate America and how people
feel about sovereign America in the form
of its currency.
>> You know what I really regret doing,
Tracy?
>> I I really regret.
>> Did you have like a hoarde of gold that
you got rid of or something?
>> No. No. I I took out a gold denominated
mortgage. You know, I feel so stupid. I
feel so stupid. Why did I do that? I
could have I get paid in dollars and I
took out a gold denominated mortgage.
What was I thinking? No, I didn't. But
had I done it, that would have been a
very bad trade.
>> Yes.
>> Remember those stories from like, you
know, a little bit of a tangent.
Remember all those stories from like the
Hungarians? They took out those Swiss
denominated mortgages back in the 2000s.
And then
>> that was very much a Europe thing for a
while. Yeah.
>> Yeah. That was a really funny little We
don't have to talk about that. the but
one thing I was just ju the only reason
I caveed the dollar fall which I do
think the it has it is quite a bit down
from the beginning of the year. All that
being said it is striking in the last
several weeks the degree to which a few
of the very popular consensus ideas for
this year are turning a little bit and I
say that 10ear Treasury as the time
we're recording this October 17th has
fallen below 4%. How many times did you
hear about the steepener trade this
year? How many times did you hear about
fiscal dominance losing control at the
long end? Um the dollar it stabilized a
little bit. So it is a very interesting
moment uh for markets in many respects
right now.
>> There's definitely a lot to talk about.
Congrats on managing your personal FX
liabilities.
>> I'm doing a good job. Uh yeah,
>> getting paid in dollars and paying your
mortgage in dollars. Well done, Joe.
>> All right. Well, you know, this is the
kind of thing that a lot of big
investors are thinking about at the
moment. And uh we should definitely
think about it too. And who is the one
person that we really like to talk to?
>> There could only be one
>> when we talk about these big trends.
>> And who is the one person that is always
in town? Cuz we're in Washington DC
right now. When we go to a new town, who
is the other guy who always is probably
going to be there at the same time?
>> The person that we run into on the
street in various outfits. Although this
time you're wearing a suit. So there we
go. The last time we ran into you
randomly, you were wearing hiking gear.
And so were we. Anyway, we are here in
DC. We have the perfect guest as always.
We are speaking once again with Hunin.
He is the economic adviser and head of
the monetary and economic department at
the Bank for International Settlements,
the BIS. We love talking to him and it's
so great to have him here to talk about
something that's really been on the
minds of a lot of market participants, a
lot of policy makers right now. So Hun,
thank you so much for coming back on
OddLots.
>> Thank you Tracy. Thank you Joe. It's
great to be back. Since Joe doubts my
entire premise for this episode,
>> doubt the entire premise at all.
>> No, let's just start with how unusual
would you say this year has been? And I
feel like so much has happened. We kind
of have to cast our minds back to April
when we did have liberation day and when
we did see the dollar fall as the market
was selling off, which was something
that's not really supposed to happen.
you're supposed to have investors reach
for the safe haven of the greenback in
times of turmoil and stress. And now,
you know, fast forward to October, I
think we've gotten a little bit more
used to that particular dynamic. But how
surprised were you at that time?
>> Well, it was a very unusual um
combination of events uh in in April.
So, what we saw was the so-called triple
decline where you had stocks, bonds, and
the dollar
>> falling in unison. And that's very
unusual because um in a riskoff episode
you know which April was um typically
the the dollar would rally uh you know
there would be a kind of safe haven flow
and uh you know back then uh there was
of course a lot of news and you saw a
lot of stories uh back then about you
know possibly the dollar uh you know
losing its international status and so
on. I think in retrospect that was you
know uh quite hasty and I think now that
we have the data we can piece together
uh in a more kind of coherent way what
was going on and um
in in short I think it was a kind of uh
hedging story uh where investors who had
uh lots of exposures uh to the US dollar
were trying to reduce some of those
exposures and we can get into some of
the details on how you know that kind
trade might uh transpire. And um it just
so happens that this is also the year
that the BIS conducts its uh triannual
survey of uh of FX markets and we've
just published the results and I think
we can also um shed some more light on
the events in April. Let's keep it big
picture still and then we'll drive down
into specific months and weeks. What is
people work for the BIS? They probably
must take out uh mortgages and Swiss
Frank, but living there in Basel.
Anyway, sidetrack. What are some of the
big takeaways from this year's survey?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, I think well actually
before we go there.
>> Sure.
>> Uh Joe, um uh I mean it's worth, you
know, thinking about how
>> uh FX markets really figure in the
investment strategy. So, you know, if
you're a long-term investor, let's say
that you're a Euro area pension fund.
What you have are obligations to your uh
you know, local uh
>> in euros.
>> Yeah. You know, beneficiaries in euros,
but you have a very large balance sheet
and so you need to have a very broad
exposure to global assets, you know,
including those in non- euro denominated
assets. So what tends to happen is um uh
some of the euros are then converted
into dollars to to invest in in uh in
dollar assets. But of course what you
want to do is to make sure that uh you
hedge that currency risk. And this is
where this instrument called an FX swap
uh really comes into its own. And it's
an operation where essentially uh the
Euro area investor pledges some euros
and then borrows dollars and then with
those dollars then go into dollar
denominated assets and as you do that
you uh also promise to unwind that
transaction at a known exchange rate at
a fixed uh you know moment in the
future. So essentially once you've gone
through that transaction um your uh
currency risk is hedged. Now exactly how
much of your foreign portfolio you hedge
in this way that varies over time. I
mean it depends for example on um you
know how high the the hedging costs are
because you're uh typically doing this
fairly short term and you're rolling
over these hedges. Uh what's important
is the short-term dollar interest rate
because you know you're borrowing
dollars in order to uh invest in dollar
assets. So when the short-term interest
rate is very high, that's uh typically a
time when hedging costs are very high.
And so uh what had happened over the
last few years was that these so-called
hedge ratios, you know, the proportion
of your assets that you actually hedge
had been really you know uh trending
down and uh you know to the extent that
some investors you know didn't hedge at
all and why would you if the dollar is
surging and the hedging cost is so
large. And so when the turbulence broke
earlier in the year, a lot of investors
were basically caught uh with very large
dollar exposures, you know, having not
hedged.
And I think one piece of evidence that
uh you know this was uh that the events
of April was very much an expos hedging
story you know hedging after the fact
was that you know we saw a lot of the uh
telltale signs of swaps being taken out
and dollars being sold uh happening in
the market. So what would happen is um
you know if an investor is holding
dollar assets you know without a hedge
>> Mhm.
>> but you're concerned about the dollar
falling uh then what you would do is you
would put on a hedge expost. You would
put on a hedge after the event and you
could do that for example by actually
then engaging in an FX swap right there
but then selling uh the dollars that
you've acquired. So rather than
investing those dollars into dollar
assets, you simply sell it in the spot
market. What that kind of dynamics would
would imply is that there would be you
know lots of uh downward pressure in
those situations where uh institutional
investors are trying to you know raise
their hedge ratios uh but exposed. So
back to the trienal, what do we see
there that uh you know puts additional
light on this episode? Oh, by the way,
on on the trienal, you know, this um it
just so happened that uh the sampling
period was April this year.
>> Amazing.
>> So, you know, it may be slightly
distorted by the events of uh you know,
the April episode. On the other hand,
the silver lining is that we have some
great data,
>> I bet,
>> on really the you know, the events of
the um of the April episode. But the
headline numbers are really quite um you
know, quite notable. It's um $9.6 6
trillion daily flow. This is like
something like almost 30% higher than
the previous survey in 22. The dollar is
still very much the dominant currency.
It's uh 90% of all of the transactions
have the dollar on one side. It's even
higher than what we saw in 22. So you
know in spite of the the the survey
being affected perhaps by these uh you
know stress events in April you know we
think we've got a very very good sort of
take. One of the things that we noticed
this year is of course you know as well
as the FX swaps which is by far the
largest segment of the of the
transactions. We also see a lot of a big
increase in the spot transactions
and also outright forwards. Uh so let me
just explain that for your listeners.
You know when you engage in a in an FX
swap, you know, we uh the investor would
borrow dollars by pledging euros and
then uh there's also a promise uh to
reverse that. Now that promise is called
a forward
and of course you can get that you know
without going through the swap. we can
just go to a dealer and say look you
know just uh sell me a outright forward
so-called and then I would actually then
have a dollar obligation
>> a swap or a swap is like a spot trade
plus a forward
>> exactly it's that combination and what
we see is as well as the swaps we see
the two components the spot and the
forward being very very large this year
um and we think that the events of April
must have had a you know had an impact
because uh you know as well as um
getting the swap and selling the dollars
in the spot market, you can also just
ask a dealer for a forward contract, but
then of course the dealer has to hedge.
So there, you know, there's going to be
a spot sale anyway. And so that
combination
uh would actually lead you to a
situation where both a spot and a
forward transactions go up a lot and
that's exactly what we see.
>> Interesting. So this is another piece of
the evidence that this was very much
exposed hedging. And let me mention just
two other things on this. We put out a
bulletin earlier in the summer. We, you
know, lay out all the other pieces of
evidence that we could uh, you know,
gather. But it's also notable that if
you look at the actual portfolio flow
numbers, the international portfolio
flow flow numbers, there was no real
selling in April. So you know, there was
a very very small outflow, but on the
scale of things, it was really tiny.
there were certainly no um you know
concerted portfolio outflows you know
from the US. So that's really the I
think perhaps the most um you know
compelling evidence that the so-called
sell America trade was not uh you know
was not the story behind the April
episode.
[Music]
Why should we care either qualitatively
or quantitatively if this was a hedge
America story and not a sell America
story outright
>> over the long term? It is possible that
you know long-term investors would then
reassess their their global exposures
and you see and you hear a lot of
anecdotal evidence that uh you know
these conversations are going on but so
far that hasn't really been you know
translated into actions but I think what
um you know does uh flow very you know
clearly from you know from the actions
in the spring is that when we look at
the various pieces of the global
financial system every part you know
depends on other parts.
And there is this network effect where
provided that everyone else is doing
what they're doing uh around the US
dollar then it's also in my interest to
actually uh uh you know be part of that
you know ecosystem. So if you have this
kind of neo network effect it's very
difficult to you know have this
wholesale shift away. One of the things
that I think is unusual and I I probably
said this in a few other episodes, but
what I think is striking about this
environment is that if you look at the
US, I can come up with a long list of
reasons to be concerned, which we don't
need to um come down uh recapitulate.
Now, on the other hand, the most
profitable, impressive, cutting edge
companies in the world that everyone
would love to have exposure to in some
way are in the US. And it strikes me as
that's the unusual situation which is we
don't typically associate volatile
sovereigns with being the home of the
most dynamic companies in the world. And
so to my mind I would love to have expo
more exposure to Nvidia and Microsoft
and all of these companies that are
making money handover fist without
having exposure to the US itself and
hence I might want to hedge. I mean
certainly you know the equity market
story I mean that really is in a class
of its own uh and as you say that's
really been a very very strong theme but
more broadly you know capital markets if
you think about how capital markets
operate um there's a whole ecosystem
behind that and uh you have the
underlying securities obviously but then
you have the hedging instruments and
then you have a whole set of investors
who are actually you know taking part
and um the banking system is absolutely
crucial in providing those hedging
services. And I think when we last
discussed this uh back in Jackson Hole,
you know, we talked about how the FX
swap market makes uh you know, money
fungeible across currencies.
>> Mh.
>> And you know, money is ultimately
something to do with banks. So, you
know, the central bank, you know, issues
highowered money. Commercial banks uh
are there also to issue money that the
other users will will take advantage of.
and FX swaps are there you know
basically providing this uh you know
service of making money fungeible across
currencies. So um you know every piece
fits into every other piece in that
sense and so you know we should think
about this in terms of the um the
mutually reinforcing pieces of this uh
you know this network.
What have you observed in in terms of
the actual trends in FX hedging costs?
Because as you described it in April,
suddenly it all starts kicking off. A
lot of large investors who are not that
used perhaps to having to hedge their
dollar exposure suddenly scrambled to do
it expost as you described. Did that
mean that the cost of actually doing so
actually increased or was it still
relatively cheap? Well, actually it's um
it's primarily about how high the
short-term interest rates are actually
and in particular if you're a non- US
investor investing in dollar assets,
it's really how high the short-term
dollar interest rate is. Because
essentially what we're doing is, you
know, you're pledging euros, let's say,
and then borrowing dollars short-term
and then investing in dollar assets. And
so it's really about um how high that
short-term interest rate is relative to
the yield you're getting on the uh on
the asset itself. And so if you have a
flat yield curve, you know, which is
what we've had or even inverted yield
curve, then hedging costs are very high.
And so in fact, you know, investors have
typically hedged and hedge ratios have
fluctuated. There's no systematic
survey, but it's fluctuated between 40
and 60%. I mean there are some pockets
of official data like the Japanese uh
life insurance companies but typically
this is you know really quite quite
anecdotal but what had happened um in
the last year or so was uh the hedge
ratios had gone down gradually. Some
firms were not even hedging at all. You
know they were trying to win both on the
stronger dollar but also on the high
yields. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Actually let me just me um mention a
very interesting point here actually. Um
it's actually uh worth thinking about
the parallels between this story about
you know advanced economy investors
holding US dollar assets with the story
about local currency emerging market
bonds. Uh you know that's actually a
very very you know important asset class
that really grew up after the GFC
>> and that's typical asset class where the
investor would not hedge. So if you want
to enter into a large emerging market
sovereign bond uh trade, you would
actually buy the instrument on an
unhedged basis. And you do that because
uh you know you think um the emerging
market currency will appreciate
uh as well as the yield fall. And so you
win twice. You know you gain both on the
yield uh you know as well as on the
exchange rate. But of course when the
tide turns that's when you you know
scramble to you know hedge expost and
that's exactly you know the same type of
thing that we saw you know in this uh in
this episode and you and there were
actually uh emerging market investors
especially from Asia who were you know
caught with very low hedge ratios and
there was this expost hedging going on.
So there's actually a very interesting
parallel between uh you know what was
you know going on this April and the
much older trade which is the emerging
market trade.
>> So Joe on the plus side people aren't
necessarily selling dollar assets. On
the downside, the negative side, we're
basically treating dollar assets the way
we would a local emerging market bond.
>> People are like, I think I'm gonna buy
some local currency US debt.
>> That's right.
Um actually but like so what was it
about April then that caused the like
what I mean we know there was yeah they
launched a trade war and there were like
massive tariffs etc but like what was it
about that such that people's uh
impulses to hedge more expose factor as
you've described it what was the thing
that said oh we want to uh change our uh
the our sort of our exposure to dollars
even if we don't want to sell them
>> I think it's uh probably a combination
of several things but uh where the you
know where the investors found
themselves in terms of the hedge ratios
had a lot to do with this. Um actually
if you look through your you know
Bloomberg uh news database you'll find
plenty of stories from 23 24 where uh
let's say life insurance companies uh
announce that they will not be hedging
uh you know there so you know they would
be holding uh let's say US dollar assets
but without a hedge and as I said you
know there were some firms that didn't
hedge at all and in a riskoff
environment what typically happens that
you want to take some chips off the
table. Uh and that just means reducing
your exposure.
>> Yeah.
>> And if you're exposed, you know, in this
double whammy fashion, uh you know, uh
you would actually try and um you know,
either hedge expost or reduce your
exposure. It looks like, uh from the
evidence that it was very much the
expost hedging story. So if people are
hedging their dollar exposure more than
perhaps some of them at least used to,
do we have to worry about things like
rollover risk or some sort of I guess
duration mismatched where you have a
shortterm um hedge whether it's a
forward or a swap or whatever mismatched
to a longer term asset. I mean this is
this is what the BIS does on a
day-to-day basis is worry about
potential risks. So, are you worried
here?
>> That's a really great comment, Tracy.
And, uh, um, I think this was, uh, you
know, where I was going to go next. Um,
of course, you have this, you know, once
you hedge, you've hedged the currency
risk at least until the maturity of the
swap, which is typically, you know, 1
month to 3 months. But, uh, it's a
short-term, it's a short-term liability
that you need to roll over.
And from time to time you might get
caught in a in a liquidity uh you know
stress episode where it's difficult to
source the dollars to actually repay and
this was for example what happened
during the GFC. It's also what happened
during March 2020 uh when there was also
a scramble for dollars and uh you know
when you're a long-term investor you've
hedged using uh a short-term FX swap but
you're holding you know long-term
securities you have a maturity mismatch
so either you have to somehow you know
sell your long-term assets which is
going to be very difficult at a fair
price or you have to join the scramble
for dollars uh with all all the other
borrowers of dollars in the market. And
so this is the paradox where you know
you're a long-term investor but actually
you have this short-term uh you know
dollar obligation. And so you know we we
are swapping one uh well we are actually
you know exchanging one type of risk for
another. We're actually changing
currency mismatch for maturity mismatch.
And um uh you know empirically if you
look at the evidence over the years it's
when the dollar is falling for a long
period of time that these hedge ratios
become very very high. So you know good
example is the period before the GFC
when uh you know dollar was uh you know
really falling uh you know quite
considerably. Yeah.
>> But then what happened at the GFC was of
course you know dollar really spiked
>> right
>> because there was a scramble for
dollars. So you there's always this
trade-off. you either have to bear some
currency risk or you bear this maturity
risk and then the you know bear this
maturity mismatch risk I should say and
and so we you know it's really uh you
know um changing one type of risk for
[Music]
Tracy really loves currency markets
because she loves the fact that when the
line moves it's you can never tell
whether it's the numerator or
denominator that's at fault. But
>> this is sarcasm by the way for those who
don't know. I hate currency markets.
>> She hates currency markets because you
never know whether we should be it's the
numerator den.
>> You say the dollar is going down.
Someone's going to be like, "Oh, no, but
it's up against like some obscure
currency that no one's ever heard of."
>> But but em and you mentioned um em and
uh em bond funds, em indices and
currency is doing very well. And so this
gets to the question of like is this a
numerator story? Is it about dollar
weakening or is it about uh so we've
been talking a lot about financial
flows. Has something changed though in
the sort of underlying economic
fundamentals of a lot of EM? I've heard
some rumblings about this. People
excited about EM in a way that I don't
think they were excited about to the
same degree during the 2010s at all. And
I just while we were chatting, I pulled
up a bunch of lines of EM related funds,
currencies all doing very well. In your
research, are there fundamental changes
in the EM world that are like people are
excited about for reasons other than the
fact that the uh dollar is weak?
>> So, this is very timely, Joe. Uh and as
it happens on Monday, we published a
bulletin exactly on this question. Um
you are the emerging markets doing well
uh because of better policy, better
fundamentals or is it really about the
the global financial market trends? And
the short answer is it's a bit of both.
Tracy loves this
>> and you would uh and you would uh you
know not think of otherwise.
>> Um why is it better fundamentals? Well,
I think it's uh uh certainly uh there's
been much better policy uh especially uh
monetary policy
and also the emerging markets have uh
have really been boyed by actually you
know uh the weaker dollar. The weaker
dollar has been a tailwind um for much
of the year.
>> This is why uh emerging market assets
have really you know rallied quite hard
and there's there's a parallel with
credit spreads as well because you know
when credit is doing well uh we also
tend to see emerging market assets also
doing well. Um and if we break it down
so why would uh uh a weakening dollar be
a tailwind for emerging markets? Well,
you know, in the simplest possible case,
if a borrower has borrowed dollars but
then uh has invested in local currency
assets, you know, there's this currency
mismatch, but then there's a windfall
when the when the dollar weakens. That's
a very simple story. It's probably not
the most important. But there's another
very interesting element here which has
to do with the so-called risk-taking
channel. And the idea here is if you
have a very diversified, you know,
portfolio of these um of the loans to
all of these, you know, currency
mismatch borrowers, the improved credit
risk on these borrowers really, you
know, shrinks the tail risk in the
credit for the, you know, for the
lender.
>> Uh so, if you like, the value at risk
goes down and that really opens the door
to to more credit. So there's this very
very strong relationship between a
weaker dollar and faster growth of
dollar denominated credit and
because of how important dollar credit
is for supply chains if there's any uh
product if there's any good that out
there that relies on very complex supply
chains global value chains
those uh products will tend to do very
well and what you've seen is actually in
spite of the weaker dollar exports have
gone up in these very highly
sophisticated goods and much more so
than the goods that are much more
affected by just a simple the simple
trade effect and the exchange rate. So
semiconductors for example, I mean this
has been one of the surprises.
>> Clearly there's the AI boom, but it's
not just that. If you look at
semiconductor trade exports from Asia,
that's really been very very resilient
this year. And um anything that has to
do with global supply chains, you would
also see. But there's a, you know,
there's a sting in the tail here
because, as we talked about earlier,
emerging markets increasingly are
becoming net creditors to the rest of
the world. And there was very little
hedging going on. And so when you're
caught in one of these downdrafts, you
get hit both from, you know, the weaker
dollar and also the and also the high
yields. And so we saw a lot of this uh,
you know, scrambling uh, you know, back
in April. So it's primarily a tailwind
and it has been a tailwind uh for a long
time but there is this third element
this new element which I think we need
to keep an eye on.
>> What do you see when you look at the
price of gold? So we are recording this
on October 17th. It's coming down a tiny
bit this morning but still above $4,000
an ounce. What is that telling you about
how investors are feeling about various
global currencies at the moment?
Well, Tracy, uh, I mean, we we hear a
lot about the so-called debasement
trade. Um, but I think that's probably
overdoing things. Uh, you know, a
debasement is really about the value of
money relative to, you know, goods and
services. We don't really see a surge in
inflation. Um, we don't see a surge in
the price of,
>> you know, even commodities. I mean, look
at, uh, you know, look at oil, look at
other commodity, you know, uh,
everything other than gold. And I so I
think we should probably look for a more
tailored explanation for gold other than
simply you know this broader uh sort of
sense of um you know uh you know flight
from you know fiat currencies and uh you
know I think one thing which goes back
to our initial conversation on uh the
role of the dollar and the global
financial system certainly central banks
have been big buyers of gold and there
has been you know that sort of you know
set a very sort of firm you know
backdrop to uh you to the market and
other people have jumped on the
bandwagon.
>> In a way, it's actually behaving like a
risk asset. Uh and the events uh and the
events today and you know last week as
well
>> uh rather than there being a flight uh
to gold during stress times what we're
seeing is it's behaving a bit like
Bitcoin um and uh and the risk assets.
So it sort of tells you that there's
been a little bit more of a speculative
element uh you know here but it's
certainly behaving in a way that's very
different from the from the historical
norms.
>> You know for a long time Traces talked
about this for a long time you could
sort of model the price of gold via real
rates and when they were very low or
suppressed or whatever gold went up. It
kind of seemed like it changed not long
after Putin had a bunch of his money
seized. Like is and when you talk about
central banks accumulating gold being
woken up to the fact that your money is
never really your money if it's in a
bank that seems like it could be part of
it.
>> Well, Joe, I mean uh certainly there are
very few assets which are not the
liabilities of someone of someone. And
uh you know typically whether it's a
fixed income instrument or an equity,
it's someone's liability. So someone has
the obligation to pay you and gold is
one of those which is not the liability
of of of of any particular individual.
Now I think um you know when we look
back we can see these sort of broad you
know swings in the price of gold after
the breakdown of Bretonwoods in the
early '7s you know there was a brief
spike but then we had a very very long
period when you know gold wasn't doing
very much. Um I think it um it's
probably something even before the
Russian invasion of Ukraine Joe. Um so
you know we've seen the trend where
something uh you know uh like this has
also sort of happened actually a few
years back even uh you know even before
the Russian invasion of uh Ukraine in 22
but I think it's um you know this this
element this uh this attribute where
it's not the liability of any particular
uh you know
>> uh legal entity or individual I think
you know is giving this a particular
Yeah.
So, I'm looking at the the top menu on
Bloomberg right now, and you know, it
it's feeling a little bit nervy at the
moment. So, the number one story is
banks trio of alleged fraud sparks fear
of broader issues. So, this is the idea
that this is Jamie Diamond's cockroach
idea that we're starting to see some
losses emerge from either outright
frauds or just bad investments and
people are starting to get a little bit
nervous. Do you see any sorts of I guess
credit oriented concerns out there at
the moment?
>> Well, Tracy, I mean certainly this week
is a very uh newsrich environment. Um
one way you are we love it. We love you
are you know contributing to that and I
think it's great. Um you know we we we
hear a lot of these comments
uh you know on credit certainly credit
uh standards have been eroding for a
long time and we have been one of the
many voices uh you know even before this
week uh you know just pointing out that
credit spreads have fallen to historical
lows. Um
but if you look at the the trajectory of
uh credit to the private sector and
compare that to what's been happening to
government debt uh there there really
isn't um a comparison. So it's certainly
before the GFC uh the big growth was in
the credit of the private sector
especially in the form of mortgages
but after that what we've seen is credit
to the private sector has really uh been
very subdued um and instead it's really
been the government uh uh you know bond
market which has grown tremendously. Now
what we're seeing now is uh you know
some signs of the erosion of credit
standards you know coming back to bite.
But if you're worried about something
very systemic, if you're, you know,
worried about systemic risk, uh the
first thing to ask is how fast has this
grown in the recent past. And typically
something that's grown very rapidly
will, you know, give you some cause for
concern.
In this case, um the really rapidly
growing element has not been credit to
the private sector. It's been credit to
the government and in particular the the
government bond market. So we should
have you know we should of course worry
about uh um you know these uh you know
these events and of course the headlines
you know create uh you know it's as I
said it's a very news-rich environment
uh we hear that and we hear the same
stories in the panels if it's really a
concern about you know uh is this the
precursor to the next uh you know
systemic crisis it's probably not the
case
>> actually this uh brings to mind
something that I don't think I've really
asked in such a way before. But another
thing that's grown a lot is the stock
market or equity equity markets. There
was actually a really good article in
the Wall Street Journal several days ago
about the degree to which equity
exposure at least in the US has spread
demographically. So a lot many more like
working-class households own stocks than
they used to. When I think about people
who are in the business of being worried
about financial stability,
they don't I don't think they stocks are
high on their radar. They're called
risky assets. We all know they're risky.
And usually crises don't emerge from
assets that we all agree are risky. That
crises emerge from assets that we think
are going to be redeemed from a dollar's
worth. We're going to get a dollars back
or whatever or we're worried about
getting back at all. But I'm curious
from the perspective of someone who
professionally maybe worries, how do you
and your colleagues think about equity
exposure, especially given the
widespread view that equity exposure is
fueling consumption in the United
States, a driver of the economy, that
there is a lot of speculative exit. Like
is there much modeling work being done
on equity and risky assets specifically
as a source of broader risk?
>> Absolutely. I think I think the you know
the main channel would be through the
real economy.
>> Yeah.
>> Through through real economic activity
rather than through let's say a
deleveraging episode or a liquidity
episode.
>> I think it's worth thinking back to the
dotcom bubble uh of 2000. You know that
was a period of course when the
valuations were even more extreme
and when the stock market fell in 2000.
Of course, we did see some effect. Um,
and of course, a lot of investors uh
lost money. Um, but there was nothing
like the same kind of impact on the real
economy that we had
>> with the GFC. And very simplistic way of
putting this is uh whenever you have
debt of various kinds, that's when you
should be worried because Joe, as you
said, it's when you're promised one $
one, but then you don't deliver. um
that's when you know there are sort of
you repercussions throughout the
economy. Now clearly with the equity
markets there are wealth effects. So you
know if you have a very large portfolio
you feel richer and then you spend more
and so there is a real economy effect of
um of the stock market. So if they if we
see a pullback in the stock market very
sustained pullback we will see you know
some effect like that. Now the estimates
of the wealth effect on consumption for
example has varied over the um over the
years but uh given the if you like the
democratization of stocks we could we
could expect a slightly larger
magnitudes but on the scale of things
that effect tends to be very small
compared to the kinds of effects
>> that are associated with deleveraging
episodes.
>> Do you see any pockets of leverage out
there that aren't getting enough
attention at the moment? Well, I think
you're very good at uh shining a light
on those, you know, all those pockets
actually. So, I think probably I don't
think I can really say anything here
that you haven't heard of. Okay.
>> Uh but I think it's certainly worth uh
bearing in mind the broad magnitude.
Yeah. One of the things that we've um uh
you know, we've talked about a lot this
year in our various uh official
publications is the fact that even you
know safe assets can be a source of
stress in the market because it's not
default that uh you know propagate
stress. It's more the deleveraging and I
think um you know if let's say long
rates were to you know shoot up and
therefore mortgage rates uh also shoot
up you know that would be a really big
deal for the real economy and that would
happen even without any defaults.
>> By the way when we started this
conversation the tenure was below 4%.
It's above it now.
>> So just keeping our listeners up to date
on what's going on in the Treasury
market on October 17th 2025.
>> Very good. I mean, the other interesting
thing is if gold is acting like a
speculative asset now, what happens when
all of that starts reversing and you
know, the thing that you thought was
worth $4,000 is no longer worth $4,000
and gold is typically used as
collateral, right?
>> Well, I always say, you know, it's
really scary when you see people like
intensely buying gold because like
what's up? Like what? But what's really
scary is why they start selling gold,
right? Because again, it's true, right?
Because actually no one has
>> You have to be a real psycho to have a
gold denominated mortgage. you have
dollar denominated mortgages etc. And so
when you see like usually I one of those
things you notice is that in a real
credit event when you really get that
VIX spike and people are really worried
about making that payment on their
mortgage and they're really worried
about paying their monthly subscription
to their Bloomberg terminal. They need
dollars and then they sell gold and
you're like oh things are getting really
rough.
>> All right,
>> I'm just throwing things out here. I
don't
>> I think that was a comment rather than a
question.
>> It was a comment not even a question.
Thank you, Joe, for your comment. Uh,
Hun, it's always lovely catching up. Uh,
this has been fantastic. Thank you so
much for coming back on the show.
>> Thank you very much, Tracy. And thank
you, Joe.
>> Thank you so much. That was awesome.
[Music]
>> Joe, I always enjoy catching up with
him. He has a fantastic way of
explaining things in a very soothing
calming manner. I do think so. I nuance
is important. Absolutely. And
technicalities in the market are
important. So if the dollar going down
is being exacerbated by hedging versus
people selling dollars outright, that is
an important thing to talk about and to
capture.
>> However,
>> I still feel like the direction of
travel is not fantastic for the dollar
itself. If people are treating dollar
assets the way they used to treat local
EM bonds in terms of hedging that
exposure.
>> Yeah.
>> That doesn't seem great necessarily for
the US. I mean,
>> no, I mean, look, it's sort, you know, I
think of a currency as sort of like
being the token at Chuck-e-Cheese, you
know?
>> And you want to play the games, but it
was really nice if like the token is
going up and you can play the games at
the same time.
>> Play more games or eat more pizza
>> or or eat more pizza. But I think we're
in this situation where people want to
keep playing the games. They just don't
really like the whole arcade.
>> And uh yeah, this is this is the way I
think about it. The games are still fun.
>> It's just that you're worried about the
direction of the arcade.
>> Yeah.
>> And so I think cuz
and this is why you know like how are
you get what you're not going to like do
business in the United States? Give me a
break. That's completely unrealistic.
even if you don't like, as you put it,
the direction of travel. And so I think
sort of intuitively you could sort of
understand why I don't want to leave
town. I just don't want to have arcade
exposure.
>> Absolutely. Um I guess what we kind of
need, we need another big crisis so that
we can observe what gold does during
that time and also what the dollar does
during that time. I think I'm gonna run
with this arc. Actually, I'm gonna run
with a really good analogy because like
like if you think like or you know
Chuck-E-Cheese has a lot of fun games,
but also I don't really think the
business model of Chuck-E-Cheese is like
that good. Like
>> how dare you?
>> Well, a lot of them have closed down,
but the it doesn't mean the games inside
were less fun. So, I don't want to hold
those tokens in my pocket forever. I
want to have exposure in case they go
out they go out of business or something
like that. Doesn't make the games less
fun in the in the meantime. And you've
solved this problem of wanting to play
the games but being worried about the
future of Chuck-E-Cheese by hedging
them.
>> I'm gonna restart Chuck-e-Cheese and
roll it out across the country just to
ruin your analogy, your preferred market
analogy. No, I think it's a good one. It
makes sense.
>> Thank you. Thank you. Finally. Thank
you.
>> All right.
>> But I will not be taking out
Chuck-e-Cheese denominated. Well, no.
So, that would be the great thing if you
could imagine getting a Chuck-e-Cheese
token denominated mortgage and then it
goes out of business. You don't even
have to pay him back. You know, I'm
pretty sure somewhere in like a box
somewhere I still have a bunch of like
Chuck-E-Cheese tickets or something like
that.
>> Maybe I should dig them out.
>> Anyway,
>> well, this is another interesting
question because what is the exchange
ratio between a token and a ticket,
right? And they're fundamentally
different than I don't know. This is
sort of like one of those communist
countries. Chuck-E-Cheese, this is a uh
paper that someone wrote. Chuck-e-Cheese
is the dual circulation economy in which
they have tokens for the games and
tickets for the prizes and how they
manage that exchange ratio is very
similar to a planned economy.
>> Do you think I could find someone to
provide like a swap on
>> Yeah.
>> a token versus a ticket or something?
>> I think there's something here. I think
we're I think we're hitting on something
important.
>> Okay. I think we should end We should
leave it there.
>> We can leave it there.
>> All right. This has been another episode
of the All Thoughts Podcast. I'm Tracy
Aloway. You can follow me at Tracy
Aloway.
>> I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow me at
the stalwart. Follow our producers
Kerman Rodriguez at Kerman, Dashel
Bennett at Dashbot, and Kalebrooks at
kalebrooks. For more OddLots content, go
to bloomberg.com/odddlots.
We have a daily newsletter and all of
our episodes. And you can chat about all
these topics 24/7 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlots.
And if you enjoy Odd Thoughts, if you
like it when we talk to Hun Shin about
upcoming risks in the market, then
please leave us a positive review on
your favorite podcast platform. And
remember, if you are a Bloomberg
subscriber, you can listen to all of our
episodes absolutely adree. All you need
to do is find the Bloomberg channel on
Apple Podcast and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
[Music]
Yeah.
Hey.
[Music]